docs/text_generation/helper.md, before:

# helper.py

## Table of Contents <a name="table-of-contents"></a>
- [Script Overview](#script-overview)
  - [Import Libraries](#import-libraries)
  - [Helper Functions](#helper-functions)
  - [Execution Flow](#execution-flow)
- [Detailed Function Descriptions](#detailed-function-descriptions)
  - [Function: `get_vectorstore`](#get_vectorstore)

## Script Overview <a name="script-overview"></a>
This script is designed to initialize and return a PGVector instance that interacts with a PostgreSQL database to store and retrieve vectorized document embeddings.

### Import Libraries <a name="import-libraries"></a>
- **logging**: Used for logging script actions and errors.
- **psycopg2**: For interacting with PostgreSQL databases.
- **BedrockEmbeddings**: LangChain community embeddings instance for handling document embeddings.
- **PGVector**: PostgreSQL-based vector store for storing and retrieving vectorized documents.

### Helper Functions <a name="helper-functions"></a>
- **get_vectorstore**: Initializes and returns a PGVector instance connected to the PostgreSQL database. It handles connection setup and error logging.

### Execution Flow <a name="execution-flow"></a>
1. **Database Connection**: A connection string is built based on the provided database credentials.
2. **Vector Store Initialization**: A PGVector instance is initialized using the connection string and collection name.
3. **Logging**: The script logs successful initialization and error messages if any occur.

## Detailed Function Descriptions <a name="detailed-function-descriptions"></a>

### Function: `get_vectorstore` <a name="get_vectorstore"></a>
```python
def get_vectorstore(
    collection_name: str, 
    embeddings: BedrockEmbeddings, 
    dbname: str, 
    user: str, 
    password: str, 
    host: str, 
    port: int
) -> Optional[PGVector]:
    try:
        connection_string = (
            f"postgresql+psycopg://{user}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{dbname}"
        )

        logger.info("Initializing the VectorStore")
        vectorstore = PGVector(
            embeddings=embeddings,
            collection_name=collection_name,
            connection=connection_string,
            use_jsonb=True
        )

        logger.info("VectorStore initialized")
        return vectorstore, connection_string

    except Exception as e:
        logger.error(f"Error initializing vector store: {e}")
        return None
```
#### Purpose

Initializes and returns a `PGVector` instance that connects to a PostgreSQL database and prepares a vector store for storing embedded document data.

#### Process Flow

1. **Database Connection Setup**: Creates a connection string using the provided database credentials and logs successful connections or errors.
2. **Vector Store Initialization**: Constructs a `PGVector` instance using the connection string, collection name, and embeddings. If successful, returns the initialized `PGVector` instance along with the connection string.
3. **Error Handling**: Captures and logs any errors that occur during vector store initialization.

#### Inputs and Outputs
- **Inputs**:
  - `collection_name`: The name of the collection in the vector store.
  - `embeddings`: The `BedrockEmbeddings` instance for creating embeddings.
  - `dbname`: Database name.
  - `user`: Database user.
  - `password`: Database password.
  - `host`: Host for the PostgreSQL database.
  - `port`: Port for the PostgreSQL database.

- **Outputs**:
  - Returns the initialized `PGVector` instance and the connection string if successful.
  - Returns `None` if an error occurred during setup.

[🔼 Back to top](#table-of-contents)

Commit message:

fix: updated helper.md with Titan info.

docs/text_generation/helper.md, after:

# helper.py

## Table of Contents <a name="table-of-contents"></a>
- [Script Overview](#script-overview)
  - [Import Libraries](#import-libraries)
  - [Helper Functions](#helper-functions)
  - [Execution Flow](#execution-flow)
- [Detailed Function Descriptions](#detailed-function-descriptions)
  - [Function: `get_vectorstore`](#get_vectorstore)

## Script Overview <a name="script-overview"></a>
This script is designed to initialize and return a PGVector instance that interacts with a PostgreSQL database to store and retrieve vectorized document embeddings.

### Import Libraries <a name="import-libraries"></a>
- **logging**: Used for logging script actions and errors.
- **psycopg2**: For interacting with PostgreSQL databases.
- **BedrockEmbeddings**: LangChain community embeddings instance for handling document embeddings. This project uses the Amazon Titan Text Embeddings V2 model to generate embeddings.
- **PGVector**: PostgreSQL-based vector store for storing and retrieving vectorized documents.

### Helper Functions <a name="helper-functions"></a>
- **get_vectorstore**: Initializes and returns a PGVector instance connected to the PostgreSQL database. It handles connection setup and error logging.

### Execution Flow <a name="execution-flow"></a>
1. **Database Connection**: A connection string is built based on the provided database credentials.
2. **Vector Store Initialization**: A PGVector instance is initialized using the connection string and collection name.
3. **Logging**: The script logs successful initialization and error messages if any occur.

## Detailed Function Descriptions <a name="detailed-function-descriptions"></a>

### Function: `get_vectorstore` <a name="get_vectorstore"></a>
```python
def get_vectorstore(
    collection_name: str, 
    embeddings: BedrockEmbeddings, 
    dbname: str, 
    user: str, 
    password: str, 
    host: str, 
    port: int
) -> Optional[PGVector]:
    try:
        connection_string = (
            f"postgresql+psycopg://{user}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{dbname}"
        )

        logger.info("Initializing the VectorStore")
        vectorstore = PGVector(
            embeddings=embeddings,
            collection_name=collection_name,
            connection=connection_string,
            use_jsonb=True
        )

        logger.info("VectorStore initialized")
        return vectorstore, connection_string

    except Exception as e:
        logger.error(f"Error initializing vector store: {e}")
        return None
```
#### Purpose

Initializes and returns a `PGVector` instance that connects to a PostgreSQL database and prepares a vector store for storing embedded document data.

#### Process Flow

1. **Database Connection Setup**: Creates a connection string using the provided database credentials and logs successful connections or errors.
2. **Vector Store Initialization**: Constructs a `PGVector` instance using the connection string, collection name, and embeddings. If successful, returns the initialized `PGVector` instance along with the connection string.
3. **Error Handling**: Captures and logs any errors that occur during vector store initialization.

#### Inputs and Outputs
- **Inputs**:
  - `collection_name`: The name of the collection in the vector store.
  - `embeddings`: The `BedrockEmbeddings` instance for creating embeddings.
  - `dbname`: Database name.
  - `user`: Database user.
  - `password`: Database password.
  - `host`: Host for the PostgreSQL database.
  - `port`: Port for the PostgreSQL database.

- **Outputs**:
  - Returns the initialized `PGVector` instance and the connection string if successful.
  - Returns `None` if an error occurred during setup.

[🔼 Back to top](#table-of-contents)
